Hi there! Welcome to
this video, where we
are going to learn
about social media
influencers. The goal
of the presentation
is to help you
understand what
influencers are and
what motivates them.
In the video, firstly
, we will define what
an influencer is,
then we will look at
some examples of
social media
influencing and what
motivates them. What
is a social media
influencer? Social
media influencers are
people who have built
a significant
following on social
media platforms and
have the ability to
affect their
audience's opinions,
behaviours and
purchasing decisions.
What defines an
influencer? They
create regular
content around
specific topics or
lifestyles, and their
followers trust their
opinions or enjoy
their personality
enough to engage with
and act on their
recommendations.
Influencers typically
partner with brands
to promote products
or services to their
audience.
Common categories are
beauty and fashion,
gaming and technology
, fitness and
wellness, food and
cooking, travel and
lifestyle, education
and how-to content,
comedy and
entertainment,
parenting and family
life.
Influencers typically
make money through
sponsored posts.
Brands pay them to
feature products.
Affiliate marketing,
earning commission on
sales, ad revenue
from their content,
selling their own
merchandise or
products, and brand
partnerships or
ambassadorships.
Things to be aware of
.
Unrealistic standards
and self-esteem
issues. Influencers
often present heavily
edited, curated
versions of their
lives that can make
people feel
inadequate about
their own appearance,
lifestyle or
achievements. This
constant comparison
can lead to anxiety,
depression and body
image issues. Hidden
advertising and
manipulation. Many
influencers promote
products without
clearly disclosing
sponsorships, making
it hard for people to
distinguish genuine
recommendations from
paid promotions.
People may feel
pressure to buy
things they don't
need or can't afford.
Dangerous trends and
challenges. Some
influencers promote
risky behaviours,
dangerous challenges
or harmful products
like extreme diets,
unregulated
supplements or
potentially dangerous
stunts without
considering the
impact on followers.
Privacy erosion.
Influencer culture
normalises
oversharing personal
information online.
People may mimic this
behaviour without
understanding the
long-term
consequences for
their privacy and
digital footprint.
Parasocial
relationships. Teens
can develop one-sided
emotional attachments
to influencers,
feeling like they're
friends when the
influencer doesn't
know they exist.
Inappropriate content
and values. Some
influencers promote
materialism, shallow
values or
inappropriate content
for young audiences.
Others may exhibit
problematic behaviour
, drama, conflicts,
questionable ethics
that people might
view as normal or
aspirational. Scams
and exploitation.
People may encounter
fake giveaways,
phishing schemes or
influencers who
exploit their
audience financially.
Some predators also
pose as influencers
to gain trust.
Distorted career
expectations. The
glamorised influencer
lifestyle can give
people unrealistic
ideas about work,
success and how easy
it is to make it
online, potentially
affecting their
academic motivation
or career planning.